and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and today i'm joined by
andy culligan and is a fractional cmo
over andy culligan.com he helps fast
fast-growing sas tech startups reach
commercial success through marketing and
sales alignment andy welcome to the show
mate how you doing doing well mate good
good to be here man
cool man so looking forward to this this
is uh almost original topic actually
because we did speak about abm account
based marketing one of the very first
episodes but we're gonna spice it up a
bit we're gonna we're gonna go through
an obs guide of how it works and the ins
and outs so first and foremost for
anyone that's new to ab i've never heard
of it what what does it really mean andy
account-based marketing don't no i'm
joking
so yeah but first of all it's
account-based marketing i think as um
tech marketers or in the tech space we
use a lot of abbreviations for things
yeah that confused the heck out of me
when i first started in the in the tech
space you know you've got uh you've got
like abm you've got sass you've got crm
you've got uh you've got so many
backgrounds yeah yeah exactly yeah even
things like net retention uh gross
retention so like all of those different
things i was like what in the name you
know but anyway maybe i'll try not to
confuse everybody within the abm space
so
account-based marketing and then i'll
probably get into icp which is ideal
customer profile and then a tam which is
totally addressable market but
essentially like to take the bs out of
it a little bit
in
what what is ibm essentially abm is just
a better way of targeting the companies
that you could be doing business with
it's recognizing ahead of ahead of going
to market in terms of which companies
you want to do business with so you
build out first of all you you recognize
who are the types of companies i want to
work with which is your icp your ideal
customer profile right right and then
based off that information then you go
and you start doing the exercise of
building your tam your total addressable
market and that's basically your bible
like your time should be your total
addressable market list is anything from
like an excel file to all of the data
that you have in your in in your crm
right
but it's uh it's it's the list of
accounts that you want to do business
with and you should tier it out based on
for example revenues like it could be
tier one or top revenue that means you
can spend more money on trying to
attract those tier two can be middle
tier three can be low value clients but
you should try to tear it out and have a
strategy to attack each and every one of
those types of tiers of accounts right
gotcha okay so i'll stop there for a sec
because i went through quite a bit so
drill into that as you wish yeah indeed
so we're talking about basically making
a list of our target companies
prospective businesses that we actually
want to work with i'm guessing because
they've probably got quite a bit of cash
they've probably got quite a few
employees they're probably companies who
might potentially have a problem that
our product our service can solve so we
think that they're a decent match for
for our business for our company um
is there is there a strategy though
before we pick up the phone before we
start spamming them on linkedin before
we start running ads their way is there
uh i guess a thoughtful approach to do
it let's say we're putting together a
list or do we even need to firstly
before we even kind of think about the
tacticals the actual actionables of
reaching them is there even before that
as things we need to consider when we're
making the list and then going after the
list
yeah so
typically um
the way that i would consult businesses
or tell them what to do is the first
step is is build out who you want like
who is your who is your ideal customer
most companies have an idea they have an
i have a hypothesis maybe an unproven
hypothesis and one of one of the things
that i would warn people of in that
especially if you're going through like
some stage of of growth right like uh if
you're talking about let's say in the
tech space right because that's where i
typically work and i know a lot of your
audience may be outside of the tax base
but if it but it it applies it doesn't
matter if you're in tech or not but what
you see is when people get to a certain
size in business let's say
i think in annual recurring revenue
another one of our acronyms uh or
abbreviations arr or mri for monthly
recurring revenue right
when you start getting in the tech space
over this like in in sas and software as
a service you start to see
um like when you get between sort of
one million or just over that one
million annual recurring revenue part
you'll start to see that like from the
zero to one million what you're doing is
is um you're basically using network
you're using contacts within your
network whoever's running your sales
alpha will be the person that's bringing
in those deals it's normally one or two
people could be the ceo could be a vp of
sales or a head of sales or whatever you
want to call it in a small company and
you've got it to the stage where you're
at like a million in revenue right
and what you've done there is you've
begged borrowed and steal within your
network in order to get those people in
over the line okay
then when you get to this sort of one to
five million plus
it doesn't necessarily
multiply as well you're looking you're
like oh no we need to scale what we're
doing and you can't scale it based on
personal relationships any longer you
need to find a way in which your product
matches
a specific
type of or service if you're offering a
service a specific type of end user or
or prospect right now some of some i
said i mentioned before that one of the
things that i see is a problem is that
people are looking at their current
customer set when they get to that one
million they're looking at current
customers and being like this is maybe
which way we should be going or we
should be maybe looking into our
existing customer list to say this is
our ideal customer which is typically
not the case because when you're growing
like that from zero to one million
you're like anybody that's willing to
give us money we will take their money
of course they're going to be ideal
customers in there as well mixed in with
there but if you're looking for a data
set to go off of in terms of to prove a
hypothesis you're not going to have it
with existing customer data so you need
to come up it's it's typically like a
mix of all
whoever just most senior people in the
organization are for them to sit down in
a room and decide upon what are the
particular hypothesis in terms of what
looks like a good customer to us is it a
specific industry specific company size
do they have a specific size team in one
specific area for example they need a
marketing team of five people or more in
order for this particular tool or
product whatever offering to make sense
to that organization right come up with
that hypothesis but don't spend years
coming up with it because that's another
thing
they can never come to a to to like to
an agreement on it and that that ends up
in problems as well is there any um this
might be too broad a question but is
there any formula that you've seen looks
pretty good for as a general rule i.e
let's look at our most profitable
customers we enjoy working with them
they drive us the most revenue and they
act we can actually help them and
replicate them is is that like a simple
formula or is there is it too
too wide a thing to say that there's a
general rule
that's there is no general rule i think
the problem the problem is that you've
got two sets of things you've got
subjectivity
which is part of the vision from the
founders of the company which way they
want the company to move and maybe if
you're dealing in an organization that's
developing a product
you're going to have the product vision
which way it's going to be in five years
from now and then you've got the right
now as well which is what you've just
mentioned looking at our our top
customers and being like do we want to
stick there so yes you can use that data
but will it match to the product vision
which changes quite a bit you know
so so there's no one-size-fits-all
that's why i said it's normally getting
the top-level people to sit down in the
room and bash it out
and onto something where everybody's
like where everybody's somewhat happy
with so the thing about it should be a
compromise right and i heard somebody
said jiren there was a wartime leader
and i can't remember which wartime
leader it was but his famous quote was
and the key to a good compromise is that
nobody's happy
right
and that's exactly how it should work
out so nobody's going to be fully happy
with what you determine as your ideal
customer profile within the organization
but the quit the key is to move quickly
on it and test the hypothesis right come
up with some content which is or or pull
it for
the next step is then to pull a list of
those companies that fit into that icp
right but i'll stop there because i've
been talking for a very long time stamps
on my apologies
that's that's a good quote i think we're
gonna have to pull a promo clip from
that one anyway um yeah so some some
good some useful tactics here you can
implement in terms of kind of making
that list putting it together um and
that's an interesting point like you say
not dwelling on kind of what's working
well for you right now in terms of
customers but also thinking where do we
actually want to get to because we're
stuck at this point for a reason we
actually need to think about growth and
building on that customer list building
on that revenue rather than just looking
dwelling on what we have now
so that's 100
100 and then it's so so you mentioned
about then going to build it like the
icp the ideal customer profile is just
the first first part of the step in
actually building that list then you
need to actually go build and people say
well how do i do that well you look at
unique data points that you can figure
out from that ideal customer so as i
said before a simple example would be
industry and company size or revenue of
that specific company or number of
employees in that company or uh for
example geographical locations is
another one and there's like tools out
there that you can that have hundreds of
data points which you can choose from
that will help you to pull this simple
examples would be something like
cognizam or zoom info um and
those those um
types of of platforms will allow you to
be able to pull that information if you
don't have that type of budget for those
types of platforms there are much
cheaper ones out there like you don't
need to go and buy the ferrari
immediately you just need data right
and
what you can do is then you pull a list
you're essentially just plugging in data
points saying i want companies from
industry x that are based in country y
pull that list and what you're going to
see very quickly is that there's a ton
of junk in there that you're going to
have to sift through
and my rule of thumb if you're looking
for like a like rules i don't know this
is like a lot of people are like what um
it's like you should have somewhere
between five to ten thousand accounts
in an ibm list right
now
that's not ten thousand accounts the
sales are gonna be picking up the phone
to yeah this is ten thousand accounts
that marketing are able to target
that when sales are picking up the
phones that are 250
or whatever it is it's it's somewhere
that
the breakdown of teams is another thing
we can discuss in a little bit but
sdrs will have somewhere between 200 to
sales themselves will somewhere have
around 80 to 100 right and then
marketing will have 10 thousand and what
will happen is
on a quarterly basis of whatever your
sales cycles are based on you know your
business you can look at how many
accounts a sales person an sdr should
have in their list from that total
addressable market and then marketing
take all of that along with the ones the
sales are already working on as well and
go target them
okay all right so
this is good enjoying this so in terms
of we've we've made this list we've
looked at the
locations the industries the job titles
we've got that all kind of set in stone
in terms of hobby targets we've probably
got a whacking great big list by the
sounds with five thousand to ten
thousand contacts uh companies companies
now contractors companies companies so
even more contacts
that's the next that's the next step
contact us after so
this is the thing so you can use the
same tool then afterwards to build
contact lists but you need to start off
with your company list so company list
is then sifting through because what
you'll find is as i said you're going to
find a lot of junk in there so wha
i want people to know that this is a
painful process this is not something
where you're like oh i just pulled the
list and then looked all that into
linkedin it's going to be all nice and
rosy it's not it's going to be a pain in
the bone i i know i've done it myself
right
there's going to be absolute junk in
that list companies that don't fit your
icp why are they even showing up on that
list but it's gonna happen so you just
need to go in and you need to do the
manual work of removing that because if
you don't and you start going to
targeting those you're gonna start
bringing in leads from those non-icp
companies you're gonna be wasting your
money right
that exercise to boil down that list is
going to take you a week of probably two
people's time
got it all right so sift out the junk
and then are we going straight to
is there some kind of process in terms
of do marketing have to get out first
before our sdr's can or before our sales
teams can or how how what does that
actually look like from from experience
andy in terms of some of the companies
you've worked with and how they actually
attack it
um i've always been the first one to
start with that list build
and then get the
just just to to not take the guys away
from selling
you know um and
just as well because i i see the benefit
in it the typical thing is people don't
see the benefit they're like oh we're
doing our we're doing our thing already
why should we why should we focus on
this new thing because abm or in this
particular fashion is typically a new
process to people in an organization if
you're building your list for the first
time it's of course a new process right
and it's quite a bit of work to get up
and running so i try to do as much of
that in the marketing team as possible
to get it up to a stage where you're
like hey sales by the way here's a list
of accounts that we've sifted through
these are the ones that we think are a
good fit can you go and just go through
it again
and see that you guys are happy with
that and then if you get them on board
then then what you need to be doing is
once they get once they're working on
that list you need to be starting
formulating your plan
right
um and with your plan it's basically
like a playbook right you've got a plays
for different types of accounts so if
we're um i mentioned a couple of minutes
ago just around within that account list
you're going to be go on sorry you want
to say something no you go ahead i'm
just making notes all right um
within the um within that account list
you're going to have different tiers of
accounts
as i said so you're going to have your
top tier accounts which we call tier one
and then mid-tier accounts tier two and
then lower tier accounts maybe tier
three and the difference between those
might be the
potential revenue that you could get
from those accounts right okay now with
the tier ones if they're high revenue or
high potential revenue accounts the
likelihood is that the sales cycle on
those is going to be longer but at the
same time it also means that you're
gonna as a marketer have more money to
spend to bring those in because your
customer acquisition costs can go higher
because your lifetime value with those
accounts is higher right they're giving
you more money basically therefore you
can spend more money on bringing them in
simply put right
and
so the way that i i would focus on that
would be i would try to keep it simple
enough split it up into those three
different account tiers
have for tier one
uh down to tier three have a similar
marketing plan for each but in tier one
you're going to have things that are
maybe a little bit different to what
you'll have in a tier two for example
and i'll give you a couple of examples
i would have overlapping strategies in
each one of those different things
one example being direct mail okay
direct mail is killer i love direct mail
like direct mail is like my favorite
marketing channel because it enables you
to be so creative
and at the same time it uh it works like
it works so well and people never
believe me until they try it so
directbed is like fantastic but anyway
in direct mail what i would do is i do
three different mailers
uh one for a tier one one for tier two
one for tier three the tier one mailer
would be a high value mailer so i'd
probably spend something like let's say
for example if i'm bringing in big big
business i might spend up to 100 pounds
or something per mailer make it very
very personalized maybe get three or
four out of those those specific
accounts a year right so you're talking
maybe three four hundred quid spend a
year on specific accounts right and also
very much personalized to that account
tier two and tier three tier two is
probably like uh
it's it's more of a scaled mailer it's
not going to be as personalized but you
may want to spend a little bit more so
you send them
i don't know
uh like
more expensive chocolates or something
like that tier three could be just a
simple like a starbucks gift card right
in order to hey
let's let's let me buy you a coffee
let's have a meeting right simple
examples but they work right um
and i'd be looking at within the within
those different tiers i'd be looking at
tier one i'll be trying to create some
very personalized content that's going
to resonate with those larger companies
in that list you'd even be going after
specific companies with maybe
tailor-made content
for that one company which i've done
before
right
um and you can afford to do that because
they're
larger value right
um whereas
diving into some of that so that's
interesting stuff so direct mail is the
approach that you tend to recommend
initially
once you've once you've got the the list
kind of narrowed down and breaking it
down into three tiers of accounts so not
necessarily those other things you'd be
doing as well direct measures without
the channels you use yeah all right
we'll get into those in a sec but on the
direct mail approach
so you imagine like we've got tier one
tier two tier three we're giving them
basically better gifts depending on the
size of the account
is there an ask straight away what's the
actual approach so are we saying like
here's an awesome gift take a meeting
with my sales rep um is it a bit more
subtle than that or what seems to work
for you
so as i said that's where other channels
come into play so i wouldn't be doing
direct mail immediately i'd be looking
to get a couple of interactions onto
accounts before i'd be even going down
to the direct mail route so okay uh
direct mail will be further down the
funnel activity
yeah uh
some not all the time sometimes direct
mail is also a really good way of
kicking down doors by the way so it's it
it depends right but what i would be
doing is i'll be getting our brand
familiar with people
from those accounts in which i'm sending
the direct mails too how would i do that
i do that typically over linkedin people
underestimate how good linkedin is
linkedin is a fantastic tool to use for
advertising uh especially for account
based marketing all you need to do is
take your time upload it into linkedin
and then start targeting those accounts
right like if you have that hefty list
of accounts that i told you to five to
ten thousand
you can then start spending money on
linkedin and uh and targeting those
exact companies all you need to do is
upload your csv
um you can do it you can break it down
part here you can get specific content
as i mentioned you before say hey tier
one should only be receiving content x
create your ad campaigns that way you
should be doing ad campaigns on linkedin
as a b2b company if you're selling in
b2b
um and if you're not doing it based on
an account list you're really just
shooting in the dark in my opinion i
think the the
linkedin
um out of box
like audience builder for for ads is
fine it's not terrible but if you have
your account list ready to go and you've
recognized these as all accounts that
you want to be doing business with why
would you be going after anyone else
yeah and is this more of a
early stage
building brand awareness so people
actually know who you are and what you
do it's kind of the early doors part of
it the actual link
i do two types of ads i do brand ads and
i do um i do lead gen ads
with the lead gen ads like i know
there's lots of different opinions in
terms of lead gen nowadays if it's a
good idea to gate content and whatnot
i've seen good success recently with
gating and getting content on linkedin i
wouldn't be pushing people away from the
linkedin platform onto a landing page
your own i'd be doing it more
lead gen ads which is within the app
itself and you just you you download the
content using the email address that you
signed up for linkedin with
one caveat with that is that you'll end
up getting a lot of personal email
addresses there's not many companies
that there's not many people that use
their
company email address as a um
as a
as their linkedin login i would say in
that
with that it depends on how hungry your
sales team or your sdr team are to
really get
get their hands on leads so i've always
been in a relatively lucky position
whereby
the
i've always worked very closely with
sdrs and they're typically sdrs being
sales development reps so they typically
are the telesales people or um the the
people that are getting the leads into
their queue and they're the ones that
are there to do the qualification and
try to try to get leads over the line
right
um and uh they've always been very
hungry for leads always really really
hungry right and the the hungry the
teams are
and the more success you're going to see
from these if you've got sdr teams like
well this isn't qualified which i've
also seen plenty this is not qualified
because it's not a demo request then
your marketing is never going to be seen
as successful ever ever ever regardless
of what you're doing because if you're
not bringing a demo request i don't see
it as being a success okay
um
but yeah like your your question was
around if if this is uh like a brand
activity versus a legion activities both
okay so
you want to be
doing those legion ads as well as like
maybe sponsoring your content so that it
if you put out a post on linkedin for
example so let's say andy andy from andy
culligan.com has posted a blog post
about xyz where my thoughts on whatever
right if you post that from your
from your uh your linkedin uh company
profile you can then put some cash
behind that to get it more in front of
more eyeballs right
um and i would be doing that again out
to my target audience a good it's a good
example of that of doing that and
getting it to work would be if you have
video content around companies that
you're working with already which work
really really nicely so
20 30 second snippet from a from you
plus a well-known brand this works
really well get that in front of more
people from those target accounts on
that list you just all you need to do is
spawn you need to push out a post on
linkedin from your company account and
then sponsor it
you know all right
got it i appreciate the breakdown so
let's throw a spanner in the works um
i'm sure a lot of people tuning in have
heard of a trap called chris walker runs
a company called refine labs if you
haven't he's on linkedin pretty much
everywhere so you do well to miss him
but he talks a lot about a platform
a process called dark social um and
there's a lot of other marketers as well
as we're around that are saying kind of
abm's getting an outdated process
and they're saying more the way to go
is to i guess it's a little bit similar
to the fact that my understanding of
dark social is more kind of using
channels like whether it's linkedin
organic whether it's linkedin paid
whether it's facebook insta organic and
paid to get in front of your
target audience but instead of going for
lead gen as such you're building i guess
brand you're showcasing authority trust
and such so rather than pushing for
leads
you're getting in front of the i suppose
the accounts you want to so when they're
ready they'll eventually go to your
website fill out your form or give you a
call so none of it's for direct lead gen
it's more just being in the communities
the spaces the social channels etc where
your audience are building trust
educating them so when they're ready
they go direct to your site
what are your thoughts
i agree with i think but i think you
need to balance it i think you need to
both
i i
i don't think you should stop all lead
gen activity and just go and focus on
just um just doing as what you just
mentioned there in terms of like just
posting everything and not having any
real target audience behind it if that's
what what what you're sort of getting
out there i
i i have some examples right and um when
i was cml with lead feeder
um
we did
both okay so i had a i i started running
around the um around the time that the
pandemic started last march i started
doing webinars okay
and uh it was very much i i
i um
i didn't want to connect those webinars
up to up to re up to really business
that was being closed we did it but it
wasn't my main focus
and what my main focus was was
um not necessarily uh connecting exactly
what lead feeder does
to a webinar and displaying that to the
audience being like this is how lead
feeder works you need to go by lead
feeder instead what i was doing was i
was getting in really top names from the
sales base which is our core user was
our core user so people like aaron aaron
ross from predictable revenue for
example you're probably familiar with
right sure um people like um
uh like michael hansen from grouchini uh
like uh morgan ingram and those types of
names we were getting in and i was i was
bringing them onto webinars like daniel
disney etc right
and um with that what we were doing was
we were doing topics that were just
really helpful to sales people so for
example i ran one with aaron and and and
michael hansen around how to do outbound
better basically right
nothing to do necessarily with lead
feeders products
sort of you close one eye and squint the
other of course but it was there was no
focus on that we were spreading
spreading that out massively across
social um we started to get a big
follower base like so some webinars
drove 2000 registrations within two or
three days right which is very which is
big right and that is big for webinar
yeah yeah it's and getting over a
thousand people on right
um
and the thing with that was again it was
it wasn't necessarily a lead gen
activity i didn't really think of it as
a lead gen activity i wasn't too
interested as pushing as a legion
activity and
it was it was it was creating a
following that we were unable to really
track
all the way down to stuff being closed
or uh stuff come on like my thought was
when they need us they will come back
right when they need a solution like
lead feeder they will come back and
start working with leafy now the
pushback that i always got from the
business was well no can we not push
lead feeder more because maybe they need
us right now they don't know what we do
right yeah we want to link this to
revenue directly we're going to rank it
to lead gen exactly which i don't agree
with which i don't agree with was at the
same time what i was also doing was the
other approach on
linkedin whereby i was taking our target
list of accounts from our outbound team
uploading those into linkedin getting
people to interact with our content on
linkedin sending lead lists over to our
sales team our outbound sales team that
were um that were constantly picking up
the phones of these accounts and they
managed to get traction because people
were downloading stuff
and the the outbound team were managing
to get traction because oh yeah of
course we know who lead feeders thanks
we we enjoyed the content that you
pushed out so yeah the mix of both
actually worked pretty well
right yeah so canceling all lead gen
activity and just focusing on pushing
everything out to everyone
i i maybe it will come someday i
wouldn't feel comfortable doing it right
now but i think the balance
there needs to be a balance between both
yeah yeah i'd probably put myself in the
same boat um
okay so before we went off on a bit of a
tangent we were talking about
we talked about direct mail we talked
about perhaps looking at linkedin for
doing brand ads doing lead gen ads to
your target list is is that the crux of
it is that kind of
this is now going to work now we can
feed some of these leads to our kind of
sales development reps our lead gen team
and they can work those into
appointments or is there a lot more that
follows or a lot more we need to
consider
so
whenever i'm working with a company i'm
always talking about compounding touch
points
so the more touch points you can get it
with an account the better okay so
let's talk about how many
like
how many contacts you should be going
after on an account first and foremost
in an account based model should be
somewhere between six to ten so six to
ten
people per account you should be trying
to engage with and have meaningful
conversations with
and marketing and sales are both
involved in that conversation okay
so mark what do i mean by that marketing
or facilitating
steps within the sales outreach and
cadence okay now the way that i would
normally see it is
um what i hear quite a bit is is um
somebody downloads an ebook
right
now the pushback from an sdr will be it
needs to be nurtured okay
now i've got one foolproof way
to make sure that leads never respond is
to troll them into a drip nurture
campaign and expect them to get up to a
level where they're going to be
qualified to give over to sales
like that is one surefire way of
throwing money out the door right
instead what i've seen is
is taking those leads and looking to
create more valid touch points with them
okay right now if within that there are
drip emails coming from marketing then
so be it
but a lot of people think oh now we have
hubspot we don't need to call leads
anymore because we can send them emails
that's not how it works so you can send
out if you let's for example you've got
an interesting case study with a client
and you want to get that out in front of
people then put that as part of the
cadence that goes out to those leads
that then come into the system at the
same time there should also be emails
coming from salespeople salespeople if
this person or if this company is very
qualified salesperson should also be
going out of the way to like their stuff
on linkedin maybe
comment on some of their things on
linkedin maybe even send them a voice
note on linkedin they should be trying
to pick up the phone give them a call
see if there's anything that could be
doing for them
you know i i there's probably like
myself and michael hanson put together
and not just me and micah was with the
guys um from from vidyard as well with
with tyler lazard i don't know if you
know tyler we put together this film
i'll show you
there you go so we put together a 40
step cadence last year 40 torches here
what are you mad no because there's lots
of different things that
like are just that we say are a touch so
liking somebody's post on linkedin is a
touch
right um and it's about compounding all
of those torches to surround the
prospect
right
yep this this um this could go on in
some detail but
in so you mentioned that it can be up to
six to ten people per account that you
target yeah so it sounds like it could
be
quite a lot of resources from your own
company that are involved
here um whether is marketers whether
that is
sdrs and i guess aes sales sales reps
actually closed deals um
what does it normally look like how many
i guess it varies from company to
company how many people typically get
involved like in terms of actual head
count and um how do you manage it it
sounds like a lot of to to manage as
well just so if you've got all these
target accounts and you've got these
different touch points you need to keep
a track of um or is it something where
you need to really kind of drill down
into someone does x someone does why
someone does z and kind of monitor the
activity each day
let me let me tell you about a company
that i'm working with at the moment that
are seeing really good success from it
okay sure i can i can even break down
into some of the some of the success
results that they've seen or successful
results that they've seen so this is
three people okay
actually i know i it's not great it's
four people but the fourth person's in
client success okay so and we've just
coached we've just named him in a client
success role like two days ago so um
this this this relationship started back
in july of this year okay
so there are there is one marketer
that's running all of our campaigns
there's me in the background like
pushing people in different directions
telling them what to do not necessarily
telling them what to do but giving them
guidance and then we've got an sdr and
we've got an ie so an account executive
so a sales person so the way that that
works we built out our total addressable
market we did that in a week
three of us did it in one week okay
took that total addressable market list
handed it over to our marketer marketer
uploaded to linkedin in the meantime the
marketer was also working on some
compelling content that would be
interesting to our client or to our
prospect base we understood who or the
persona that we wanted to sell to and we
started creating some content which
would be interesting for them to go and
interact with the same time we also
started doing things like webinars like
we launched the webinar two days ago and
now we've got 560 people registered for
it that's something i can get into now
in a moment but
at the same time
with that small team what we've managed
to do is bring in about
uh last month we brought in 850 leads
from our target accounts
okay so 850 meaningful interactions 850
people gave us their details and
interacted with a piece of content or
they've come to a webinar that we've
done right um on top of that what we've
managed to do is we've managed to grow
the pipeline from
july pipeline being like 20k which was
too low right to 70k in august 100k in
september uh 150k in october and now
we're pushing 250k
uh pipeline build for november so
we've done that by completely changing
the way that we were doing things right
and we've also started to close some big
brands as well so we've started to
accelerate some of those deals as well
by offering and serving content to them
as well right and that's in the space of
four months
and within that like the company is
relatively small okay so the company
when i first started working there was
uh working with them they were on a
100k arr so
uh annual recurring revenue of 100k
we're going to finish this year in about
300k now and that's just in the second
half of this year just based on the work
that the guys have been doing
so if you're asking me can you see
results with small teams
then i've just yeah you can 100 receive
out of interest um
feel free to not disclose what kind of
spend were they looking at in terms of
kind of that marketing you just
mentioned there they did webinars they
did linkedin adsense some other bits and
pieces what were they tracking into that
program spent so pro so marketing
marketing like execution calls let's say
without head count right yeah we're
we're looking at no more than ten
thousand dollars a month
for that okay
interesting okay well that's that's
that's an actual example so that's
really useful for for everyone tuning in
on kind of what that actually looks like
and how that works and how many people
can manage it
so
with that all said andy are there any
other considerations that we need to
kind of think about when it comes to
doing this are there any other perhaps
channels we've not spoken about or any
other kind of abm etiquette things we
need to consider um before we kind of
jump in and start putting these
tactics into play i guess i think you
just need to not over complicate it i
think um a lot of people when they hear
about account-based marketing you think
oh no big investment in in programs so
execution costs but also a big big big
investment in tools right you don't
necessarily need tools like
they're for larger enterprise
organizations there are tools that make
sense to invest in for example terminus
terminus
basically what they do is they offer um
they they offer basically a uh
um a display ad
uh tool which you can start displaying
ads to your um to your target base or
your itp whatever it might be right um
and that's particularly helpful when you
get into a stage where you have big big
companies in in your pipeline already
and you just want to surround them
right but that's very good from a brand
perspective but from a a general
performance perspective because let's
like let's call the spade spade here
people are talking about and you
mentioned chris walker talking about the
dark web and art not the dark web the
dark dark social and so on about going
just pushing brand all together most
companies have a lead gen problem every
company that i talk to the sales team is
saying we cannot generate enough leads
okay and it's again it's this legion
versus demand gen topic right demand gen
is bringing people to your lead
generators back on grabbing people okay
there's still again it's a balance
but um i would say that don't get don't
get too into the into the weeds or get
let anybody convince you that you need
to make big investments in tech because
the tech that's out there for abm is
first of all very very expensive second
of all if you're just starting out in
your ibm journey you're likely to want
to see conversions you want to see leads
coming through the door from those
accounts in which you want to do
business with right whereas the likes of
terminus and so on it's not necessarily
a performance marketing tool it's a tool
for brand getting your brand out in
front of more accounts right and it will
cost you a lot of cash it's not it's not
cheap right
and what i would say is start small
start off with for example tools like
lead feeder is a good tool for example
right for your sales team lead feature
is a super cheap tool you can do a
two-week free trial i don't work at lead
feeder anymore so
i'm not getting paid the promo code is
yeah so you can get to a two-week free
trial you can see which companies are
visiting your site and that will give
the sales team some intel also the
marketing team some intel in terms of
which types of companies are coming and
visiting the site so what what messaging
is resonating with which particular
companies and but it will also help to
stay tuned and realize okay which
companies should be doing shapes first
right
um but
in terms of then tech to uh to build
your total addressable market list i
mentioned two zoom info on cognizam
cognism is uh is a tool that i always
show from the root tops about you may
not have the budget for it they're
cheaper than zoom in from my in my
experience you might have the budget for
it there are other cheaper tools out
there and there's a normal example
so that works probably half the price of
what cost would be
um
uh there i can't think of the top of my
head sales and there's another one for
example there's there's
20 different market
prices they're very
their quality
that's basically how it works
nice
awesome
andy look really appreciate this has
been a very detailed thorough breakdown
so it's really been useful for myself
and i'm sure everyone that's tuning in
today so yeah with that i just want to
thank you very much mate really enjoyed
the conversation and please do tell us
more about how anyone tuning in can
learn more from you and how they can get
in touch
sure and so best place to get me is on
linkedin i'm very very active on
linkedin um so
if you if you want to have a chat or if
you're interested in
maybe some advice about how to allow
marketing and sales how to get your ibm
up and running anything like that please
ping me on linkedin the easiest way to
get me as i said i'm very very active
there so yeah you'll get me as a calling
administrator
i'm sure you're going to join in profile
yeah so we'll um we'll put all the links
over on the site at
businessgrowth.marketing we'll put
andy's linkedin we'll put his website
over there and so with that i want to
thank you once again mate really enjoyed
it as i said
and um that's it from us today as always
if you enjoyed today's show do hit that
subscribe button we interview business
leaders each and every week to provide
actionable marketing tips to grow your
business and most importantly your
revenue and with that we should catch
you on the next one